

=== OBJECTIVE ===

1. Examine two new features to ES2016

== Exponentiation Operator ** ==

    in quite view other languages there is exist an operator to figure out the value of one number to the power of another. Before ES2016 this is done by using Math.pow but in ES2016 we can use handy operator by two asterix ('**')

    ei. Exponent Operator

    // ES2015
        var calculatedNumber = Math.pow(2,4);

        calculatedrNumber; 16

    // ES2016

        var calculatedNumber = 2 ** 4;

        calculatedrNumber; 16

    it's more consise way to calculate the value.

    if we like we can use the exponentiation operator a loong with equal sign similar with '+=', '-=', '*=', '/=', '%=', and many more.

    Any time you find your self using Math.pow refactor it with ES2016 exponantiation operator

    ei. another example

    // ES2015

        var nums = [1,2,3,4];
        var total = 2;

        for(let i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
            total = Math.pow(total,nums[i])
        }

    // ES2016

        var nums = [1,2,3,4];
        var total = 2;

        for (let i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
            total **= nums[i];
        }

== [].includes ==

    the method [].includes return a boolan. Which return true if the value pass to it is included in a string otherwise it's return false.

    in ES2016 arrays now have include method as well. Which's excelent replacement for using indexOf to see if the values exists inside an array, it's work just the same way as string.includes(), 
    
    we can go from using 'indexof()' and a comparison operator like greater then (>) or triple equals (===) to using a method that directly return a boolean. If you find yourself needing to see if a value exists in an array you can now use '.includes()'.


    ei. '.include'

    // ES2015
        var nums =[1,2,3,4,5];
        nums.indexof(3) > -1 // true
        nums.indexof(44) > -1 // false
        

    // ES 2016
        var nums = [1,2,3,4,5];
        nums.includes(3); // true
        nums.includes(44); // false

2. Use new string method in ES2017

    == padStart ==

    .- is allow us to pad or place certain character a number of times before the start of the string 

    .- The first parameter is the total length of the new string 

    .- the second parameter is what to pad with form the start. The default is an emty space

    This is quite useful when you need to have a string that they are all have the same length but your input migth not always have that. so maybe you want some input a zero or some other operator

    ei. padStart() method

		'awesome'.padStart(10); // "   awesome"
		'awesome'.padStart(10, '!'); // "!!!awesome"

== padEnd ==

.- is allow us to pad or place certain character a number of times at the end pf the string.

.- The first parameter is the total lengtj of the new string

.- the second parameter is what you need to pad with from the end. The default in an empty space.
        
    ei. padEnd() method

		'awesome'.padEnd(10); // 'awesome   "
		'awesome'.padEnd(10,'!'); // 'awesome!!!'

== When is useful using padStart() and padEnt()? ==

is always useful is to make sure that string is always with the certain length even that they need to be pad it.

Infact there is an insident that not long ago many essential libraries including NodeJS depended on external function for padding string. The owner of the external function remove it from public registry and instantly broke thousand of application.

So even if you don't use this function to much just know it has important usecases for libraries and framework that you will be using 
    
3. Understand how to refacator asynchronous code using ES2017 async function

== ES2017 Async Function ==

.- Async function is a kind special function that are created using a keyword 'async'.

.- The purpose of aysnc function is to simplify writing asynchronous code
    specifically Promises

== How it's work ==

when async function is invoke a promise is return to us. and will resolve with what ever value is return from the function.

what is makes this code is really special is the 'await' keyword!
  
    ei. async ES2017

        async function first() {
            return "we did it!";
        }

        first(); // return a promise

        first().then(val => console.log(val)); // 'we did it'

        //or ES2015 or below

        first().then(function(val) { 
            console.log(val);
        });

== Await ==

.- Is a reserved keyword that can only be suing inside async functions

.- 'await' keyword is pauses the execution if the async function and is followed by a Promise. The await keyword waits for the 'promise' to resolve, and then resumes the async function's execution and returns the resolve value

.- you can think the 'await' keyword like a pause button(similar to 'yield' with generator). 
        
.- But the 'await' keyword allow us todo is write asyncronous code that read like asyncronous. we can remove the hustle of nested callback, promise chain, or multiple 'yield' statement and generator function.

== Using await ==

here we have asynchronous function getMovieData
which console.log 'starting!',and then await the resolution of the 'promise'and then print 'all done!, and then print some information about the movie

if we run this function, what order do you think we'll see out that information print out 

well first out print "staring!"then all done.
and then the movie data even though are AJAX call is entirely asynchronous the code we've have writen read very synchronously through the use of async anyway

we dont use .then any kind callback function or yield keyword. 

    ei. using await
        async function getMovieData() {
            console.log('starting!');
            var movieData = await $.getJSON('https://omdbapi.com?t=titanic&apikey=thewdb');
            // this line does NOT run untill the promise is resolved!
            console.log('all done!);
            console.log(movieData);
        }

        getMovieData(); // logs an object with data about the movie 

== Object async ==
        

If we like we can also make async function inside of the object like prefixing the method with the word 'async' and using ES2015 object method notation to write the function,
        
 all we need to do is make sure we prefix the name of function with the 'async' keyword. we can write the same kind of syntax with callback function as well.

	ei Object async

        var movieCollector = {
            data: 'titanic'
            async getMovie() {
            var movieData = await $.getJSON('https://omdbapi.com?t=titanic&apikey=thewdb');
            console.log(response);                    
            }
        }

        movieCollector.getMovie();

== Class async ==

we can also place aysnc function as instance method withm ES2015 calss syntax

we can also can add 'async' method using ES2015 class syntax

NOTICE is previos example we are prefixing our method name the 'async' keyword and then we can create a new object from our movie data class and use this method

This all seems great but we make dangerous assumption right now when using the await keyword 

    ei Class Async
		class MovieData{
		    constructor(name) {
		        this.name = name;
		    }
		    async getMovie() {
		    var movieData = await $.getJSON('https://omdbapi.com?t=titanic&apikey=thewdb');
		    console.log(response); 
		    }
		}

		var m = new movieData('sherk');
		m.getmovie();

== Handling Error aysnc ==
        
we're assuming all the promises will result all successfully.
        
 What happen if the promise rejected? Since await will await to promise to result what happens when things go wrong? How we handle an error? 
        
Thankfully if promise rejected using await JavaScript will throw an error so we can handle this error gracefully with try-cacth statement

If promis is rejected using await, an error with be thrown so we can easily use try/catch statement to handle error



we can see the function below that we gonna try to get user information from github API If we do not find users successfully we'll get back 404 from the server and response.name will not be valid. Thankfully our catch statement will handle that error and we console.log if user doesn't exists

	ei. Handling async error
            
		async function getUser(user) {
			try{
				var response = await $.getJSON('https://api.github.com/users/${user}');
				console.log(response.name);
			} catch(e) {
				console.log("user does not exist!")
			}
		}

		getUser('elie'); // Elie Schoopick


== Thinking about HTTP Request ==

    ei. Sequintial async 
    // SEQUENTIAL NOT PARALLEL

        async function getMovieData() {
            var responeOne = await $.getJSON('https://omdbapi.com?t=titanic&apikey=thewdb');
            var responeTwo = await $.getJSON('https://omdbapi.com?t=shrek&apikey=thewdb');
            console.log(responeOne);
            console.log(responeTwo);
        }   

        getMovieData();

    ei. parallel aysnc

        async function getMovieData() {
            var titanicPromise = $.getJSON("https://omdbapi.com?t=titanic&apikey=thewdb");
            var shrekPromise = $.getJSON("https://omdbapi.com?t=shrek&apikey=thewdb");

            var titanicData = await titanicPromise;
            var sherkData = await shrekPromise;

            console.log(titanicData);
            console.log(sherkData);
        }

== Await with Promise.all ==

we can use Promise.all to await mutiple resolved promises

     async function getMovieData(first, second) {
         var moviesList = await Promise.all([
             $.getJSON('https://omdbapi.com?t=${first}&apikey=thewdb'),
             $.getJSON('https://omdbapi.com?t=${second}&apikey=thewdb')
         ]);
         console.log(moviesList[0].Year);
         console.log(moviesList[1].Year);
    }

    getMovieData('shrek', 'blade');


4. Use the spread and rest for object


