
=== OBJECTIVES ===


1. Understand what ES2015 is and how the term came to be

    in 1995-1996 BRandon Ike in NetScape make a language to run in Web Browser, it's initially name 'mocca' later on 'liveScript' and finally 'JavaScript'. 

    At that time there's another browser competitor named IE(Internet Explore) which's build by MS (Microsoft) in order to compete with NetScape, MS reverse enginer Brandon Ike language and named a 'JayScript'. Since than now have two different languages for different browser it became difficult to build application for both. 

    So Brandon Ike look for organization to help standarized this language to stop this problem. In 1996 The Europian Computer Manufactur Assosiation (ECMA) was broad on to help standarized the language.

    In 1997 ES1 was release, and implemented on a browser, and ECMA crew realse ES2 in 1998, and ES# in 1999. ES4 never end up being release. And in 2009 ES5 was release with a large update. 

    In june 2015 a large update come with ES6, but since the popularity with JavaScript which growing so much the TC39 which the commity that vote to add the new feature into the language decided they would releasing the new changed every year, so they decided to rename ES6 to ES2015, and since there the new feature will be added to the language.


ES2015 additions:

    . let, const                    . object destructing
    . template string               . array desctructing
    . arrow function                . class keyword
    . default parameter             . super and extend keyword
    . rest and spread operator      . Maps / Sets
    . for...f loops                 . Promises
    . object shorthand notation     . Generators
    . computed property names       . Object, Number, Array method


2. Refactor code to use 'let' and 'const' and explain the implication of using both

== CONST ==

'const' keyword is the new alternatif to the 'for' keyword to declaring a variabel 

'const' keyword allow us to create constant or value which cannot to be redeclare.

    ei. 
        > var firstInstructor = 'colt'
        <. undifined
        > firstInstructor = 'Elie'
        <. "elie"
        > firstInstructor
        <. "Elie"

        > const anotherInstructor = "Tim"
        <. undefined
        > anotherInstructor = "Elie"
        <. uncaught TypeError : Assigment to VM168:1 
            constant variable
                at<anonymous>
        > const anotherInstructor = "New"
        <. Uncought SyntaxError: Identifier VM179:1
            'anotherInstructor' has already been declared
                at<anonymous>

The rules for 'const' keyword is we can NEVER redeclare the variable by the same name.

we can still change the value of an array or an object even if it a sign using a 'const' keyword.

be mindfull this even when you using the 'const' keyword you are not able to change the value of the primitive, this include String, Numbers, Booleans, Null, Undefined, and new primitive call Symbol. But when you are working with an Object you can acctually changes the value of the constant.

'const' is very usefull when you want explicitly declare the variabels that should not be never to be redeclare, even you be able to change the value you still forbidden from creating new variable with the same name which is usefull for variable that you only want decalre once.

'cont' however is not stop an object from being modified when we talk a data cannot be changes we call that data immutable. Remember 'const'is not make object immutable.


== LET == 

'let' keyword can reasign, can not redeclare.

'let' does hoist,but we can not access the valie-it is an TDZ (Temporal Dead Zone). which variable was declared but we cannot access the value.

'let' keyword will hoist to the top of the block, however refencing that variable in the block before the variable declaration result in the reference error. The variable is an a the temporal dead zone from the start of the block until declaration is process.

'let' also cannot redefine variable using the 'let' keyword once again.

'let' can create on own kind of scope inside the block.

-- block in JavaScript is create from 'if', 'for', 'while', 'do', 'try', and 'catch'. And when we use 'let' keyword inside of those block we can create an own kind of scope.

    eg. Hoisting with let

        function HelloInstructor() {
            return elie;
            var elie = "ME!";
        } 

        helloInstructor(); // Undefined

        function helloSecondInstructor() {
            return clot;
            let colt = "HIM!";
        }

        helloSecondInstructor(); // ReferenceError

-- when 'let' keyword use inside a function is not be have the same way as the 'var' keyword. In JavaScript is a term 'Hoisting' to explain behavior of what 'var' keyword does. The idea behind 'hoisting' is the variable define using the 'var' keyword will have their variable declaration lifted to the top of the scop that they are in.



however we will see the result from console.log(i) was return 5 as 5 times when we run. why is that? The answer is by the time the setTimeout was run the for loop is already finish running. The value of (i) has been incremented to 5 and the loop has stop, only then the my setTimeout run and prints out what ever the value of (i) is at that time

	eg. Use Cases for 'let' 
		for(var i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
		    setTimeout(funtion() {
		        console.log(i);
		    }, 1000)
		}
		// 5 (five times looping);


before the 'let' keyword was present to resolve this function is to run another function inside the loop and invoke immediatly so that each setTimeout will have own value of (i)


    for(var i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
        (function(j) {
            setTimeout(function() {
                console.log(j);
            }, 1000)
        })(i)
    }

    // 0
    // 1
    // 2
    // 3
    // 4
    // 5


'let' allow us to declare a variable that limited in scope to the block which is use and a new variable is created for each iteration in the loop

	for(let i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
		setTimeout(function() {
		    console.log(i);
		}, 1000)
	}

	// 0
	// 1
	// 2
	// 3
	// 4
	// 5


when you use 'let' keyword? When you working inside the block, and do not want declare that variable inside that block to be accessible outside you use the 'let' keyword.

'let' keyword will hoist to the top of a block, however refencing that variable in a block before the variable declaration result a Reference error. A variable is a Temporal Dead Zone (TDZ) from the start of the block untill the declaration is process.

'let' also cannot redefine a variable.


3. Use template string to avoid string concatenation in your JavaScript code.

template also know a 'String Interpelation'.

using a backticks. " ` ` " 

using $(), $() to concatenated.


	eg. Template string

		var firstName = "Elie";
		var lastName = "schoopik";

		console.log("Hello" + firstname+ " " + lastName) // sometimes error prone!

		// using template string
		console.log(`Hello $(firstname) $(lastName)`); // Much nicer!


template string also allow us to write multiline string.

	eg Multiline String

		"
		Hello
		" // does not work!

		`
		Hello
		How
		Nice
		Is
		This!
		` // works well!

4. Use arrow function to write shorter function and compare arrow function and the function keyword

It's replace the keyword 'function' with  '=>'

== One-line arrow function ==
    
. You can put arrow functions on one line.

. But you must omit the return keyword as well as curly braces

    eg. arrow function 

        // ES5

        var add = function(a,b) {
            return a+b;
        }

        // replace the keyword 'function' with 'with'

        var add = (a,b) => {
            return a+b;
        }

        // going to one line

        var add = (a, b) => a+b;


so what so special about arrow function? If we place out entire function on one line we do not need to use the 'return' keyword and curly braces, if we do use the 'return' keyword JavaScript will actually throw a SyntaxError. 

    ei. another example

        // ES5

        [1,2,3].map(function(value) {
            return value * 2;
        }); //return [2,4,6]


        // ES2015
        [1,2,3].map(value => value *2); // [2,4,6]

    ei. with 'double' and 'filter'

        // ES5

        function doubleAndFilter(arr) {
            return arr.map(function(value) {
                return value * 2;
            })
            .filter(function(value) {
                return value % 3 === 0;
            })
        };

        doubelAndFilter{[5,10,15,20]}; // [30]


Notice that if we only have one parameter, we do not need parenthesis around it with arrow functions!

	// ES2015

		var doubleAndFilter = arr => arr.map(val => * 2).filter(num => num % 3 === 0);

            doubelAndFilter{[5,10,15,20]}; // [30]

== THE CATCH WITH => ==

. arrow function (=>) are not the same as regular function!.

. arrow function do not get their own 'this' keyword
                
	we mention earlier when the function was mention once they get own keyword 'this' and keyword 'argument' but it not the case with '=>' function
            
. Inside of an arrow function (=>), the keyword 'this' has its original meaning from the enclosing context. 

	is that keyword 'this' inside an arrow function it's whatever the value keyword 'this' would be immediatly outside of that arrow function
            
. The fact that arrow function (=>) do not have their own 'this' keyword can be quite helpful--you just need to understand when you might NOT want that.


== A familiar Situation ==

    var instructor = {
        firstName: "Elie",
        sayHi: function() {
            setTimeout(function() {
                console.log("hello" + this.firstName);
            }, 1000);
        }
    }
    instructor.sayHi(); // 'Hello undiefined'


To solve this we use keyword 'bind'.

when it's 'bind' usefull? If we do not know all the argument that will be past to a function, which mean we do not want to invoke function right away, we just wanna return a new function with some  parameter we call this "partial application" 


    var instructor = {
        firstName: "Elie",
        sayHi: function() {
            setTimeout(function() {
                console.log("hello" + this.firstName);
            }.bind(this), 1000);
        }
    }
    instructor.sayHi(); // 'Hello Ellie'


Arrow Functions as an Alternatives

Remember that keyword arrow (=>) doesn't have own keyword 'this'. the value of keyword 'this' inside the arrow function is it enclosing contex. 
    
Why this's work? The keyword 'this' inside setTimeot refers to its enclosing contex(the instructor object). since the arrow function doesn't gets own keyword 'this' we don't have to worry about explicitly setting it's value, we can just use arrow function.

NOTICE we use both the function keyword and an arrow function why? why we don't use the arrow function in the sayHi method? If we use an arrow function in sayHi method will not have it's own a keyword 'this'.  And the enclosing contex of sayHi method will actual be a global object which in this case the window. If we put the arrow function in the sayHi method we will get "Hello Undefined".

     var instructor = {
        firstName: "Elie",
        sayHi: function() {
            setTimeout( () => {
                console.log("hello" + this.firstName);
            }, 1000);
        }
    }
    instructor.sayHi(); // 'Hello Ellie'

     var instructor = {
        firstName: "Elie",
        sayHi: () => {
            setTimeout(function() {
                console.log("hello" + this.firstName);
            }.bind(this), 1000);
        }
    }
    instructor.sayHi(); // 'Hello undefined'

-- The lesson here you need to be carefull when use arrow function, they are concise can clean up your code, we must always be aware the arrow function do not get their own keyword 'this' and keyword 'argument'.

    eg. using arrow function with 'argument' keyword

        var add = (a,b) => {
            return arguments;
        } 

        add(2,4) // Reference error; arguments is not defined.


-- An Arguments keyword can be accessed if the arrow function inside of another function (int will be outer function arguments) 

    function outer() {
        return innerFunction = () => {
            return arguments
        }
    }

    outer (1)(2); // only prints out [1]


== When NOT to use Arrow Function ==

1. Arrow function should NEVER be used as method in objects since we will get the incorrect value of the keyword 'this'. ES2015 provide a better alternative-we'll see it soon!

    eg. Arrow function as method in object

		var insttructor = {
		    firstName: "Elie"
		    sayHi: () => `Hello $(this.firsName)`;
		}

	    instructor.sayHi(); // "Hello Undefined"


1. omit : mengabaikan, menghilangkan, meninggalkan, melalaikan 
2. concise : ringkas, singkat, pendek, 

5. Use ES2015 object enhancements to refactor code

    see the arrowFunction.js and some examples on top.

6. Explain what es2015 default parameters are and how to use them

    We can use default value to set Numbers, Strings, array, Object, Boolean, and even a function
    
    eg. Default value

	// before using Default value

		function add(a,b) {
		    return a+b
		}
		<. Undifined

		> add()
		<. NaN

		function add(a,b) {
		    if(a === undefined) {
		        a = 2
		    }
		    return = a+b
		}
		<. undefined
		> add()
		<. undefined

		function add(a,b) {
		    if(a === undefined) {
		        a = 2
		    }
		    if(b === undifined) {
		        b = 2
		    }
		    return = a+b
		}
		<. undefined
		> add()
		<. 4

    // after add Default Parameter on value a and b

		function add(a=10, b=20) {
		    return a+b
		} 

		add() // 30
		add(20) // 40


== FOR ... OF Loops ==

the syntax for--of loops is similiar with for..in loop. for..in loop tradionaly to loop keys and an object but isn't more helpfull for iteraing over values in an array this for..of loop will work.

How for .. of loops work? ES2015 has a new primitif data type called a 'Symbol' which you not working with frequently, but there is a method on symbol called 'itertor' which specifies how data iterated over and over some build in 'data-types' like string and special kind of object like arrays as well a two new data structure which we'll examine later 'rest' and 'sets' they build in Symbol.iterator function however object do not. This mean cannot use for..of loop to iterate over an object

	.eg for of loop

		var arr = [1,2,3,4,5];

		for (let val of arr) {
			console.log(val)
		}

		// 1
		// 2
		// 3
		// 4
		// 5

7. compare and contrast the 'rest' and 'spread' operators

== REST operator ==

'rest' operator is collect the remaining argument to a function and return to us in an array. 

	ei. REST (...);

		function printRest(a,b,...c) {
			console.log(a);
			console.log(b);
			console.log(c);
		}

		printRest(1,2,3,4,5,6);

		// 1 (its for a parameter)
		// 2 (its for b parameter)
		// [3,4,5,6] (its for c parameter)

when it's useful? You may work on problem when you need to acces the argument array-like-object and manipulate it, since the keyword 'argument' not actually an array you can't use method like 'for each', 'map' or 'filter' unless you converted into an array which's bit tedios.

NOTICE :

.- The 'rest' operator always retrun an array

.- Is called the 'rest' operator "only" when it is a parameter to a function
.- Is accessed without the '...' in a function

.- A better alternative to using arguments array-like-object

1. tedios   : membosankan, tidak menarik, menjemukan. 


	ei. rest(...) 

// ES5 

	function sumArguments() {
		var total = 0;
		for(var i = 0; i < arguments.length; i++) {
		    total += arguments[i];
		}
		return total;
	}

A little fancier ES5

convert argument array-like-object into an array using 'slice' and 'call' if you not exactly sure now what's going on here? We using a slice method on an array, but setting what we would lie to slice as the argument array-like-object using '.call'. now we have an array we can use to reduce method to sum all of this value. This will do same think as a buff but how can the rest of operator help us 


	function sumArguments() {
		var argumentsArray = [].slice.call(arguments);
		return argumentsArray.reduce(function(accumulator, nextValue){
		    return accumulator + nextValue;
		});
	}


in ES2015

We using the 'rest' operator (...) as well arrow function (=>) to write a concise solution. We using the 'rest' operator to gather all the arguments as an array so we don't need to use array-like-object arguments, well then doing the same exact reduce as buff using an arrow function so we can place at all on one line.

To really to inforce this concept try 

	var sumArguments = (...args) => args.reduce((acc, next) => acc + next);


== Spread Operator ==

when (...) three dots are use outside the parameter to a function those three dots operator calls the 'spread' operator.

The idea is taken an array and spread each value out.

-- used on array to spread each value out(as a comma separted value)

-- useful when you have an array, but what you are working with expects comma separe values.

	ei. spread

	// ES5
		var arr1 = [1,2,3];
		var arr2 = [4.5.6];
		var arr3 = [7,8,9];

		var combined = arr1.concat(ar2).concat(arr3);

	// ES2015 
	    var combined = [...arr1. ...arr2, ...arr3]; 

== Spread Instead of Apply ==

	ei. spread 2 

	var arr = [3,2,4,1,5];

	Math.max(arr); // NaN

dont worry to much about the first parameter to apply, we dont care about the keyword 'this' value it is, we just using 'apply' for second parameter. Which's how to pass an array arguments to be spread out to the function

	// ES5
	Math.max.apply(this, arr); // 5

with Math.max function operator we can easly to spread out the value to the function and find the greates, which is 5.  

	// ES2015
	Math.max(...ar); // 5
	


	ei. spread 3

		function sumValues(a,b,c) {
			return a+b+c;
		}

		var nums = [12,15,20];

		// ES5
			sumValues.apply(this, nums); // 47

		// ES2015
			sumValues(..nums); // 47

8. unpack values from arrays and objects using destructing 

== Desctructuring ==

-- Destructuring is Extracting values from data stored in objects and array

-- Destructuring allow us to unpack values from arrays or properties from object into distinct variables.

-- Destructuring same call as unpack the value of property from an object or an arrays



we have an object called instructor with a key firstName and lastName.
If we wanna create a variable called firstname and assigned to the value of firstName property on the instructor object and do the same for lastName variable here does might look like.

What we doing here is extracting values from data store an object this process is quite bit tidios and only get worst if more get nested object. Destructuring allow us to unpack the value from an arrays or property from object into distinct variables

	ei. Destructuring
	 // ES5 

		 var instructor = {
			 firstname: "Elie"
			 lastName: "schoppick"
		 }

		 var firstName = instructor.firstName;
		 var lastName = instructor.lastName;


over here we have same object just before, but notice our variable declaration of firstName and lastName, lefthend side of the equal sign wrap in an object, what we doing here creating new variables firstName and lastName which destructure or unpack from the instructor object. if we take look firstName and lastName we can see they are the same as before.

Now the catch here we have to name our variable the same name as the key as the object we are destructuring, what happen if we wanna make with different variable name? no problems you can simply add a colum (:) and add the new variable names.  


	// ES2015

		var instructor = {
			 firstname: "Elie"
			 lastName: "schoppick"
		}

		var {firstName, lastName} = instructor;

		firstName; // "Elie"
		lastName; // "schopik"

	// Destructuring with different variable name

		var instructor = {
			 firstname: "Elie"
			 lastName: "schoppick"
		 }

		var {firstName: first, lastName:last} = instructor;

		firstName; // "Elie"
		lastName; // "schopik"



we have createInsructor function to accept a singgle parameter called 'options'. Inside of this function we checking to see if the value of option parameter were pass in, and if not we assign it to an empty object. we then creating a new variables call 'name' and 'isHilarious' which are either values inside the 'options' object or default values that we make. Finally we returning an array values first property and last property and on the name object and the value of isHilarious variables.

if we invoke this function with a few different ways we will se that we can get some default values. And if we pass in an our options we can modified the output of the function


	ei. 2 destructuring 

	// ES5 Default Values with an Object 

		function createInstructor(option) {
			var options  = options || {};
			var name = options.name || {firts: 'Matt', last: 'Lane'};
			var isHilarious = options.isHilarious || false;
			return [name.first, name.last, isHilarious]
		}

		createInstructor(); // ['Matt','Lane', false]
		createInstructor({isHilarious: true}); // ['Matt','Lane', true]
		createIntructor([name: {firts:'Tim', last:'Garcia'}]) // ['Tim', 'Gracia', false]


What we are doing here, is passing in a destructuring object as a parameter to a function, and specifying the keys of names and isHilarious with default value. 
At the end of the parameter we assigned the whole thing tobe an empty object. so ES2015 knows default parameter is destructure object. 
If nothing is pass in we default to the destructure object as the parameter.


	// ES2015 Destructuring

		function createInstructor({name = {first:'Natt', last:'Lane'}, isHilarious=false} = {}) {
			return [name.first, name.last, isHilarious];
		}

		createInstructor(); // ['Matt','Lane', false]
		createInstructor({isHilarious: true}); // ['Matt','Lane', true]
		createIntructor([name: {firts:'Tim', last:'Garcia'}]) // ['Tim', 'Gracia', false]



==RECAP DESTRUCTURING ==

.- We're passsing in a desctructuring object as a default parameter!

.- We assign as a default value an empty object so ES2015 know we are destructuring

.- If nothing is paased in, we default to the destructured object as the parameter.


1. distinct : jelas, terpisah, berbeda, nyata, lain, istimewa, 


ei. example 3 Destructure

so how can destructuring help? If you know the name of the key that you will be using from singgle object you can destructure those keys as parameter. 


	// Object fields as parameter ES5

		function displayInfo(obj) {
			return [obj.name, obj.favColor];
		}

		var instructor = {
			name: 'Elie'
			favColor: 'purple'
		};

		displayInfo(intructor); // ['Elie', purple]

	// Object fields as paramter ES2015'

		function displayInfo({name, favColor}) {
			return [name, favColor];
		}


		var instructor = {
			name: 'Elie'
			favColor: 'purple'
		};

		displayInfo(intructor); // ['Elie', purple]


== ARRAY DESTRUCTURING ==

Notice destructuring allow us to extract value (unpack) from an arrays and or properties from objects into distinct variable.


	ei. Array destructuring ES5 vs ES2015

		var arr = [1,2,3];
		var a = arr[0];
		var b = arr[1];
		var c = arr[2];

		a; //1
		b; //2
		c; //3


notice how we use array bracket on the left hand side of the equal sign just like use curly bracess of object destructuring


	// ES2015
		var arr = [1,2,3];

		var [a,b,c] = arr;

		a; //1
		b; //2
		c; //3


	ei. Destructing array 2

	// ES5

		function returnNumbers(a,b) {
			return [a,b];
		}

		var first = returnNumbers(5,10) [0];
		var second = returnNumber(5,10) [1];

		first; // 5
		second; // 10

	// ES2015

		function returnNumber(a, b) {
			retunr [a,b];
		}

		[first, second] = returnNumbers(5,10);

		first; // 5
		second; // 10


== Swapping Values ==

	// ES5

		function swap(a,b) {
			var temp = a;
			a = b;
			b = temp;
			return [a,b];
		}

		swap(10,5); // [5,10]

		// ES2015
		function swap(a,b) {
			return [a,b] = [b,a];
		}

		swap(10,5); // [5,10]


=== Object Enhancements ==

 == Object Shorthand Notation ==

	ei. Object shorthand Notation 

		var firstName = "Elie";
		var lastName = "schoppick";

	// ES5

		var instructor = {
			firtsName: firstName,
			lastName: lastName
		}

----- ---- ---
we refactor this code if the key and value have the same name we do not have to repeat that declaration
----- ---- ---

		var firstName = "Elie";
		var lastName = "schoppick";

	// ES2015

		var instructor = {
			firtsName,
			lastName
		}

==Object Method ==



we defining a method  as a function place on an object.

if we remember back in our discussion of an arrow function we mention, we should not using the arrow function as a method object.

The reason is because the arrow function do not get their own keyword 'this'and we might accidentaly not get the correct value for the keyword this that what we want 

	ei. Object Method
	// ES5

		var instructor = {
			sayHello: function() {
				return "hello";
			}
		}


in ES2015 we simply admit a column and the function keyword 
and place parentheses after the name of our a method


	// ES2015 -do NOT use arrow function here!

		var instructor = {
			sayHello() {
				return "Hello"
			}
		}


== Computed Property Names ==

here we making a variable firstName and assigned to "Elie"
and we making variable instructor as an object.
if we want an object to have a key 
what ever the value of the first name variable is
we have to use a brackets notation and lets JavaScript evaluate that
unfortunately in ES5 we firts make an object
and then assign a value using bracket notation

	eg. computed property names
	// ES5

		var firstName = "Elie";
		var instructor = {};
		instructor[firstname] = "That's me!";

		instructor.Elie; //That's me!"


in ES2015 we can assigned a value using a bracket notation while defining our object

here we simply add brackets arround the name of the key to let JavaScript compute the name of the property

	// ES2015

		var firstName = "Elie";
		var instructor = {
			[firstName]: "That's me!"
		}
		instructor.Elie; // "That's me!"


==RECAP ES2015 ==

.- ES2015 gives us two new keyword for declaring variable 'let' and 'const', Const ensures we can not redeclare a variable and 'let' gives us block scope.

.- Easily evaluate variables in strings and create multi-line strings with ES2015 template strings, Don't forget the backtiks! (` `).

.- Create more concise function using the =+ syntax, but these function do not get their own 'this' and 'arguments' keywords.

.- gather arguments to a function as an array using the 'rest' operator and 'spread' out values in an array to another value or function using (...)

.- Write more concise methods and property names using shorthad notation and computed property names.

.- Object destructing is very useful for reducing duplication and passing in default parameter as a desctructured object.
