

=== OBJECTIVE ===

1. Refactor Object Oriented code to use the class, extends and 'super' keyword


== CLASS ==

The main idea behind Object Oriented Programing is to Reduce code duplication and improve readability thrue creating classes.

In JavaScript we mimic the behavior of classes by using constructor function and placing method on the prototype property of the constructor function

-- Class is :
  
.- A new reserved keyword provides by ES2015

.- The class keyword creates a constant--can not be redeclared

- The class keyword is an abstraction of constructor function and prototypes. JavaScript does not have built in support for object oriented programming.

.- the class keyword does not hoist.
	        Be sure to define your classes at the top of the file, althought a lot different term and concepts here.

.- Still use 'new' keyword to create objects

    
Create a constructor function Use the new keyword to create objects
    
	ei. ES5 Objcet Oriented.

        function Student(firstName, lastName) {
            this.firstName = firstName;
            this.lastName = lastName;
        }

        var elie = new student('Elie', 'Schoppik');


We use the 'class' keyword to give a function a name
Inside of the class we add special method call 'constructor' 

Inside the constructor we place the same code as what we had as the constructor function with ES5

'constructor' is a special name of a function and this function will be run on the class is invoke using the new keyword

In object oriented programming when we invoke or create an object from our class we call that 'instantiation or create an instance

as a side if you create an object from the class without a 'new' keyword you'll get the type error.

when you use the 'class' keyword  there's no notion of the constructor function or prototypes

so there's still some resistent in the JavaScript comnmunity around this edition(ES2015) since abstracts so much.

however using the 'class' keyword has become the standart practice when using more modern library and  framework including REACT.

	ei. ES2015 Object Oriented
		function Student {
		    constructor(firstName, lastName) {
		        this.firstName = firstName;
		        this.lastName = lastName;
		    }
		}    

		var elie = new student('Elie', 'Schoppik'); // same as ES5


== RECAP ES2015 Object Oriented ==

.- use the class keyword instead of creating function

.- inside, use a special method constructor which is run when 'new' keyword is used

.- Use the 'new' keyword to create objects

== Instance Method ==

we discuss how the add method can be use by every single object created from the class. In OOP we call this Instance method since the class create object or instances 


Shared methods and properties are placed directly on the function's prototype property.

    ei. ES5 Instance Methods
		function Student(firtName, lastName) {
		    this.firstName = firstName;
		    this.lastName = lastName;
		}

		Student.prototype.sahHello = function() {
		    return 'Hello " + this.firstNmae + " " + this.lastName;
		}

	
	ei. ES2015 Instance Methods


in ES2015 we place prototype method (.prototype) inside of the class just like what we did with special 'constructor' method.

Remember this code is just an abstraction for what we have use before.

It's far more efficient to create instance method and place those methods inside of the contructor

if we place method inside the constructor, they are redifine each time we create an object from that class


== Recap ES2015 Instance Method ==

.- Placed inside of 'class' keyword

.- no 'function' keyword--similar to object shorthad notation.

.- under the hood it is placing method on the prototype object. 


now we've seen the instance method, were method that can be access by object created from the contructor function how can we create a class method or method directly on the constructor function

    class Student {
        constructor(firstName, lastName) {
            this.firstName = firstName;
            this.lastName = lastName;
        }
        sayHello() {
            return ` Hello ${this.firtsName} ${this.lastName} ` 
        }
    }




Class methods are placed directly on the contructor function

Here I'm creating a method call isStudent inside the Student constructor which return true if the object pass to it have a constructor property which is the student constructor (Student)

You may hav use the similiar method like this to see if something is an array. NOTICE that the array that is array method is directly is on the constructor. This is the idea of the class methods.


    ei. ES5 Class Methods 

		function Student(firstName, lastName) {
		    this.firstName = firstName;
		    this.lastName = lastName;
		}

		Student.prototype.sayHello = function() {
		    return "Hello " + this.firstName + " " + this.lastName;
		}

		Student.isStudent = function(obj) {
		    return obj.consctrutor === Student;
		}




How adding method and properties directly on to class? This method and properties are call a static and make use of the 'static' keyword.

To add the static method on a class we simply add the word 'static' before it.

To use this methods (static method) we simply invoke it out of the class.



    ei. ES2015 Class Methods (static class)
		class Student {
		    constructor(firtsName, lastName) {
		        this.firstName = firstName;
		        this.lastName = lastName;
		    }
		    sayHello() {
		        return ` Hello ${this.firstName} ${this.lastName} `
		    }
		    static isStudent(obj) {
		        return obj.constructor === Student;
		    }
		}

When is static method useful? Sometimes we don't want every object created from the class to have own methods, specifically when we want use the method without creating objects from that class.

Think about a time when you be use a static method? how do you see an array in JavaScript? remember we can't use typeOf since typeOf array return object. So instead we could commonly use Array.isArray. This method is array, is a static method on the array contructor function.

    ei.
        > typeOf []
        <. 'object'

        > Array.isArray([])
        <. true

        > Array
        <. function Array() { [native code] }

You may have came a cross other static method like object.create to create a new object, or object.freeze to prevent a object from being modified. 

    ei. 

        > Object.create
        <. function create() { [native code] }

        > Onject.freeze
        <. function freeze() { [native code] }


REMEMBER METHOD IS A FUNCTION INSIDE A OBJECT .   


== IHERITANCE (with 'extend' keyword) ==

.- Inheritance is Passing along method and properties from one class to another in OOP.




.- Set the prototype property of a constructor to be an object created from another prototype property

.- Reset the constructor property on constructor function.

In this example below i have two constructor function 'Person' and 'Student'. I would like to sayHello method on the person prototype to be accessible from object created from Student constructor.

In ES5 the common way is we set the prototype properties of one function to be a new object with the thunder-proto (_proto_) property of another constructor function prototype.

This is done by setting the prototype property of the constructor to be an object created from another prototype property. And resetting the constructor property on the constructor function.
    */

    ei. ES5 inheritance
		function Person(firstName, lastName) {
		    this.firstName = firtsName;
		    this.lastName = lastName;
		}

		Person.prototype.sayHello() {
		    return " Hello " + this.firstName + " " + this.lastName;
		}

		function Student(firstName, lastName) {
		    this.firstName = firtsName;
		    this.lastName = lastName;
		}
		// setting prototype property
		Student.prototype = Object.create(Person.prototype);
		// resttimg the constructor property
		Student.prototype.constructor = student;




Using the 'extends' keyword 

if one class extends another it will have all the method that the class  which is extends from has 


    ei. ES2015 Inheritance
		class Person {
		    contructor(firstName, lastName) {
		        this.firstName = firstName;
		        this.lastName = lastName;
		    }
		    sayHello() {
		        return ` Hello ${this.firtsName} ${this.lastName} `;
		    }
		}

		class Student extends Person {

		}

		> Student.prototype.sayHello();
		<. function sayHello() {
		    return ` Hello ${this.firtsName} ${this.lastName} `;    
		}

		> Student.prototype.constructor === Student
		<. true
		

== SUPER Keyword ==

.- The idea behind keyword 'super' is to find a method by the same name in the parent class, where the class which's pass down method and properties to a child class.




NOTICE the duplication in the Student constructor function.

Is there any way to borrowm the code from the Person function? and use it in the Student function?   
We can't just invoke the person function because the value of keyword 'this' is important. So how we fix that issue?

Instead copying all the code we invoke the Person function and specify the value of the keyword 'this' to be the object created from the Student function using the 'new' keyword.

we could use 'call' here but since the second parameter to 'apply' is an array we can use the 'arguments' keyword array-like-object to capture all the arguments pass to the function, this is much easier when we have lot of parameter.  

NOTICE the fundamental difference is that call() accepts an 'argument list', while apply() accepts a 'single array of arguments'.
    */

    ei. ES5
        function Person(firstName, lastName) {
            this.firstName = firtsName;
            this.lastName = lastName;
        }

        Person.prototype.sayHello() {
            return " Hello " + this.firstName + " " + this.lastName;
        }

        function Student(firstName, lastName) {
            // THIS IS THE DUPLICATION 
            this.firstName = firtsName;
            this.lastName = lastName;
        }

        // Use 'Apply'

        function Student() {
            person.apply(this, arguments);
        }

        // Use 'call'

        function Student() {
            .call(this, parameters, parameters,)
            person.call(this, firstname, lastName);
        }


in our case Person is a parent class, and Student is a child class In our constructor method in the Student class we will use 'super' which will invoke method by the same name in the Person class.

Super can only can be use if a method by the same name is implemented in the parent class. 
    
    ei. ES2015
		class Person {
		    contructor(firstName, lastName) {
		        this.firstName = firstName;
		        this.lastName = lastName;
		    }
		    sayHello() {
		        return ` Hello ${this.firtsName} ${this.lastName} `;
		    }
		}

		class Student extends Person {
		    // you must use 'super' here!
		    super(firstName, lastName)
		}

== Recap the 'class', 'static', 'extends' and 'super' keyword ==

.- Quickly create contructor function and prototype methods using the 'class' keyword. 
    
	Just remember the 'class' keyword is abstraction using function and object, In ES2015 is not add build in support for classes, under the hood we still using all the same tools we saw with ES5 constructor function and prototype.

.- add class methods using the 'static' keyword

.- Implement inheritance using the 'extends' and 'super' keywords.

    invoking the class with the same name in the parent class

.- ES2015 class syntax is an abstraction of using function and object.


2. Understand how to use new data structure ES2015

== MAPS ==

.- also called 'hash maps' in other language

.- Until ES2015--objects were replacements for maps

.- Similar to obejcts, expect the keys can be ANY data type!.

.- Created using the 'new' keyword

you can think 'maps' as and object but the keys can be any type. Remember the data type of JavaScript object is always a string for keys. Object is similar to maps in a both what you set keys to values retrieve those values delete keys and detect wheter something it store at that key. 

Here we creating a 'map' and set the key '1', 'false' and the string 'nice' NOTICE that our keys here are any data-type including booelan and number we can even 'set' (.set) a keys to be an 'array' and 'object' to retrieve value from a 'map' we simply 'get' (.get) them if we do not want that for each items we can iterate over the map as a come forEach() method.

    ei. Maps 1

        var firstMap = new Map;

        firstMap.set(1, 'Elie');
        firstMap.set(false, 'a boolean');
        firstMap.set('nice','a string');
        firstMap.delete('nice'); // true
        firstMap.size();// 2

        // Keys (parameter) can be any type!
        var arrayKey = [];
        firstMap.set(arrayKey, [1,2,3,4,5]);

        var objectKey = {};
        firtsMap.set(objectKey, {a:1});

        // Extracting Values

        firtsMap.get(1); // 'elie'
        firstMap.get(flase) // 'a bollean'
        firstMap.get(aarayKey); // [1,2,3,4,5]
        firstMap.get(objectKey); // {a:1}

        // We can easily iterate over the map!
        firstMap.forEach(v => console.log(v));

        // Elie
        // a boolean
        // [1,2,3,4,5]
        // {a:1}

    
this is the sudo code forEach
    
		[1,3,3].forEach(function(value, index, array) {

		})

    // example in real world

		var arr = [1,2,3];

		arr.forEach(function(value, index, array) {
		    console.log(value);
		})       


    // or
        firstMap.forEach(function(v){
            console.log(v);
        });
    
we can Iterating over a map.
maps implement a Symbol.Iterator which means can use for..of loop.

        firstMap.values(); // MapIterator of values
        firstMap.keys(); // MapIterator of keys

== Why we use maps? ==

.- Finding the size is easy--no more loops or Object.keys()
    
.- The kyes can be any data-type!

.- You can accidentally overwrite keys on the Object.prototype in an object yu make--maps do not have that issue. 

.- Iterating over keys and values in a map is quite easy as well
        
maps has a size property, the keys can be any data type which is handy, maps also do not have own prototype object so never going accidentally overwrite key in the object prototype which is an issue you encounter with an object, finally  iterating over keys and valies in a map is quit simple and easy more than object.

== When to use a 'map' ==

.- If you need to look up keys dynamically (they are not hard coded strings)
    think using a brackets notation with an object
.- If you need keys that are not strings!

.- If you are frequently adding and removing key/value pairs

.- Are key-value pairs frequently added or removed?

.- If you are operating on multiple keys at a time.

== WeakMap ==

.- Similar to a 'map', but all keys MUST be objects

.- Values in a WeakMap can be cleared from memory if there is no reference to them

.- More performant than 'maps', but can not be iterated over.

    
== Sets ==

.- is a data structure which all values on a 'set' unique

.- Any type of value can exist in a 'set'

.- Created using the 'new' keyword

.- Exist in quite a few other languages, ES2015 finally brings them to JavaScript

== When yo use 'set' ==

Very commonly in programming you want to ignore duplicate value, when you don't need to identified a values with keys or care ordering about a value 'set' are great.

    ei. Set Syntax

		var s = new Set;

		// can also be created from an array
		var s2 = new Set([3,1,4,1,2,1,5]) // (3,1,4,2,5)

		s.add(10); // {10}
		s.add(20); // {20, 10}
		s.add(10); // {20, 10}

		s.size; // 2

		s.has(10);  // true
		s.delete(20);// true
		s.size;     // 1

		s2[Symbol.iterator]; // function(){} ...
		// we can use a for..of loop!.

== WeakSet ==

.- Similar to a 'set'. but all values MUST be objects

.- Values in a WeakSet can be cleared from memory of there is no refence to them

.- More perfomant that setts, but can not be iterated over


3. Refactor asynchronous code using the native Promise constructor and create function that can pause and resume exeution with generators.

== PROMISE ==

.- is a constructor function to help manage asynchronous code.

.- Promise is a one time guaranteed return of some future value

		The idea here is we do not know what the value of some the asynchronous operation will be, or when it will finish executing so we create a placeholder what value will be.
    
.- When that value is figured out--the promise is resolved/fulfilled or rejected

.- friendly way to refactor (messy) callback code
    
.- Libraries have implemented Promises for a while, ES2015 is a little late to the game.


== Example Story time ==

this is stroy time to understand more about a 'promise'

    .- You're hungry--so you go to McDonalds to order some food.

    .- you place your order and get a ticket (a promise)
        
        Instead of standing on the counter (for waiting food) and stopping other people for ordering which will be syncronous or blocking code you move out the way so that other people can order      
  
    .- after some time. you either get your food and the promise is resolved (resolving the promise) or you do not ger your food (rejecting the promise) and the promise is rejected 

        Regardless once your promise has been rejected or been result it's done and you give back your ticket.

    .- If you want another order--you need a new promise!

        The Idea here is we have to create a new promise if we wanna perfom a new asynchronous operation again.

THIS IS A BIG DIFFERENT BETWEEN 'PROMISES' AND 'CALLBACK'.


== Where have you seen promises before? ==

.- JQuery implemented its own version of promise callend a 'deferred'. JQuery version 3 now support native promises.

.- Many JavaSCript libraries and framework (Node, Angular) use popular promise libraries like 'q' and 'bluebird' to handle asynchronous code.


== How ES2015 Native Promise? ==

.- Created using the 'new' keyword

,- every promise constructor accepts a callback function which contains two parameter 'resolve' and 'reject'

.- You can call these parameters whatever you like, 'resolve' and 'reject' are most common.

.- These parameter are both function to be run if the promise is resolved or rejected.



what we doing here is we returning the new 'promise' which will run a setTimeout and afer one second if the result of Math.random is greater than 0.5 second we'll result with output 'Yes!', otherwise we'll reject with output 'No!'.

The idea here we running some asynchronous operation and we wanna wait untill the result is 'resolve' or 'reject'.

    ei. promise simple example with asynchromous code

        function displayAtRandomTime() {
            return new Promise(function(resolve, reject) {
                setTimeout(function() {
                    if(Math.random() > .5) {
                        resolve('Yes!');                            
                    } else {
                        reject('No!');
                    }
                }, 1000);
            });
        }

The returned value from a 'promise' will always contain a .then and .catch method which are function to be executed when the 'promise' is resolved or rejected.

        displayAtRandomTime().then(function(value) {
            console.log(value);
        }).catch(function(error) {
            console.log(error);
        });

This function will return a 'promise' to us which can be result with .then() method, if promise was rejected we can handle it with .catch() method.

.then() accept a callback function with the value pass to the result() function. And .catch() accpet a callback function with the value pass to the reject() function. 


== Returning Promises ==

What useful about 'promises' that each .then() return another promise to us which has .then() method. We call this a 'thenable' we can chain promises together and return values from one promise to another!.

what we're going try to do is build an array of years that movies was release and print out the array when we're done building it up. We use 'omdb' API to do this.

        var years = [];
        $.getJSON("https://omdapi.com?t=titanic&apikey=thewdb")

        .then(function(movie) {
            years.push(movie.Year);
            return $.getJSON('https://omdapi.com?t=titanic&apikey=thewdb')
        })
        .then(function(movie) {
            years.push(moive.Yeare);
            console.log(years)
        })
        
        console.log)("ALL DONE!");
        // "ALL DONE!"
        // [*1997, *2001]

If you remember from JQuery, the AJAX methods return 'promise' to us, so we can call .then() directly on the result of the AJAX methods return to us.
    
Lets do that wth 'omdb' API to get some movie data, well then return another AJAX call as the promise and when it's done being result we'll printout the movie years.

REMEMBER this entire opertion is asynchronous so 'ALL DONE!' will be print out before the years array.


== Promise.all ==

.- Accept an array of promises and resolves all of them or rejects omce a single one of the promises has been first rejected (fail fast behavior).

.- If all of the passed--in promises fulfill, Promise.all fulfilled with an array of the value from the passed-in promises, in the same order as the promises passed in.

    Promise.all doesn't guarantee that this promises will resulty sequentialy, it'll return an array of result promises in the same order that you pass them in to that function  

.- You may have seen something like this when '$.when' in JQuery or 'Q'

.- The promises don't resolve sequentialy, but promise.all waits for them (to result.)


let's make a function that return a promise


let's make a function call getMovie which return a promise to us and lets invoke the function few times. REMEMBER the value of these variable is appending promise it's not being rejected or result there simply of promise for some future values

Instead of chaining all of this promise together with .then and an other .then and another .them We can simply place them all inside of Promise.all invocation. Here we see all of the promises being pass in as an array and then result as an array of object which can iterate over and print out the 'year' for each one

Promise.all was the common method will be using in ES2015 promise constructor.


    ei. Promise.all
        function getMovie(title) {
            return $.get.JSON("https://omdapi.com?t=titanic&apikey=thewdb");
        }

        var titanicPromise = getMovie('titanic');
        var shrekPromise = getMovie('sherk');
        var braveheartpromise = getMovie('braveheat');

we can now resolve all of the promises using Promise.all

        Promise.all([titanicPromise, shrekPromise, braveheartPromise]).then(function(movie) {
            return movies.forEach(function(value) {
                console.log(valie.Year);
            });
        });

        // 1997
        // 2001
        // 1995

== Generators ==

up untill now when a function was executed it ran untill it was completed either to the return keyword or wonder no more code to run, 'generator' function are bit different.

.- A special kind of function which can pause execution and resume at any time

.- Created using a '*' (after the 'function' keyword)

.- When invoked(run), a generaotr object is returned to us with the keys of 'value' and 'done'

.- Value is what is returned from the paused function using the 'yield' keyword

.- Done is a boolean which return true when the function has completed


Here we iterating a certain number of time and using the 'yied' keyword to yield the counter variable each time if we invoke this function we'll get back a generator objecton generator object we have a method called 'next'which will run the code after the first keyword 'yield' it sees we can keep calling '.next' until there are no more values and the done property is true

    ei. our first generator
        function* pauseReturnValue(num) {
            for(let i = 0; i < num; i++) {
                yield i;
            }
        }

        var gen = pauseAndReturnValues(5);

        gen.next(); // {value: 0, done: false}
        gen.next(); // {value: 1, done: false}
        gen.next(); // {value: 2, done: false}
        gen.next(); // {value: 3, done: false}
        gen.next(); // {value: 4, done: false}
        gen.next(); // {value: undefined, done: true}


== How Generator useful ==

imagine if we have a function that's very time consuming to run and we only need it to run part of it at the time? 'Generator' would be perfect for that.

In order to do that we place multiple 'yield' keyword inside the 'generator' function to pause it multiple times.


we can place multiple yiled keyword inside of a generatpr function to pause multiple times!

    ei. Yield Multiple Values
        function* printValues() {
            yield "First";
            yield "Second";
            yield "Third";
        }

        var g = printValues();
        g.next.value; // 'First'
        g.next.value; // 'Second'
        g.next.value; // 'Third'

== Iterating over a generator ==

Since generator implement a 'Symbol.iterator' property we can use a 'for..of loop'.

    ei. Iterating over a generator

        function pauseAndReturnValues(num) {
            for(let i = 0; i < num; i++){
                yield i;
            }
        }

        for(val of pauseAndReturnValues(3)) {
            console.log(val);
        }            

        // 0
        // 1
        // 2

== Async Generator ==

We can use generators to pause asynchromous code!.

In the code below we pausing the 'promise' and then using '.then' to resolve it we can add multiple 'yields' statements for fifferent promises and result them whenever we like and continue resuming our function

 Async generator 
        function* getMovieData(movieName) {
            console.log('starting')
            yield $.getJSON(`https://omdbapi.com?t=${movieName}&apikey=thewdb `);
            console.log('ending')
        }

The next value returned is a promise so let's resolve it
/
        var movieGetter = getMovieData('titanic');
        movieGetter.next().value.then(val => console.log(val));


generator are fondation for some complex library that help manage asynchronous code, but there's a newer way to manage async code with ES2017 async function. 

4. Utilize helpful ES2015 method for copying object, converting array-like-object into arrays and handling issues with NaN

== Object.assign ==

A common problem we may encounter in JavaScript is dealing with making copies of objects because we can't simply assign one to another. 

That because when we assign one object to another we just assigning a new reference and not a brand new object

Object.assign is accpet a series of objects and will return a new object with keys and values for all the object pass to it. 
    
It's important to note if you don't start with empty object, object.assign will stil keep a reference to another object inlcuded in it

So if you want to make a cpy without a reference you sure to put in an empty object as a first paramter to Object.assign.

    ei. Object.assign
        Create copies of object without the same reference!
        //ES5

        var o = {name: "Elie'};
        var o2 = o;

        o2.name = 'Tim';
        o.name; // 'Tim'

        Fixing up with Object.assign(notice the first parameter)
        //ES2015

        var o = {name: "Elie"};
        var 02 = Object.assing({}.o);

        o2.name = "Tim"
        o.name; // "Elie"


another gotcha! Object.assign is not create a deep clone. So if there object inside of the object that you are copying those references is stil will be there.

We can see here that the instructor key in our object 'o' can still be change from the 'o2' variable, if you need deep clone you can write your own function or you can use a different data structure of popular libraries like 'lodash' 


if we have objects inside of the object we are copying--those still have a reference!.

    ei. Not a deep clone
        var o = {instructor: ["Elie", "Tim"]};
        var o2 = Object.assign({}, o);

        o2.instructor.push("Colt");
        o.instructor; // ["Elie", "Tim","Colot"];


== Array.from ==

Array.from is a method allow us to copy array-like-object into an array.

You might be wondering what arraylike-object is? And you actualy seen quit a few of them when you use method like document.getElementByTagName or document.querySelectedAll or when you use JQuery to select element from the DOM or use the 'arguments' keywords. What it's return to you looks like an array but it's not have the array() method like 'push()', 'pop()', 'slice()', 'forEach()',map(), and so on.

    ei. Convert other data types into arrays

        // ES5

	        var divs = document.getElementByTagName("div"); // return an array-like-object
        
	        div.reduce // undifined, since it is not an actual array.
    
To convert this object into an array we use the slice() method along with call() method so that we can set the target of what we want to slice as the array like object, once we do that we can access array method on the converted aray-like-object

    How this was done with ES5--using 'call'

        var converted = [].slice.call(divs) // converts the array-like-object into an array

        convert.reduce // function reduce() {...}

Notice that from() method is invoke directly on the array function.

Array.from excepts a value an converted into an array if possible 

Array.from works with 'String','Maps', 'Sets',and 'array-like-object'.   

    ei. example static method converting array-like objects into arrays

        // ES2015

        var divs = document.getELementByTagName('div');
        var converted = Array.from(divs);
    
    ei. converting different types of objects into arrrays

        var firstSet = new Set([1,2,3,4,3,2,1]);
        // {1,2,3,4}

        var arrayFromSet = array.from(firstSet);
        // [1,2,3,4]


== Find ==

.- Invoked on arrays

.- accepts a callback with value, index, and array (just like forEach, map, filter, etc)

.- Return the value found or undifinef if not found

    ei. Find method

		 var instructor = [{name: "Elie"}, {name:"Matt"}, {name: "Tim"}, {name: "Colt"}];

		instructor.find(function(val) {
		    return val.name === "Tim";
		}); // {name: "Tim"}

    // or

		instructor.find(val =>{
		    return val.name === "Matt";
		});

== Why using find? ==

	'find' is very useful way of searching thru an array an returning a value without using for loop. 
    
== findIndex ==

The same way that we can use 'find' to return a value, we can use 'findIndex' to return the index at which a found value is that. If that value is not found findIndex return -1.

-- Similar to 'find', but return an index or '-1' if the value is not found.

    ei. findIndex 

	     var instructor = [{name: "Elie"}, {name:"Matt"}, {name: "Tim"}, {name: "Colt"}];

		instructor.finIndex(function(val) {
		    return val.name === "tim";
		}); //2

    // or

	    instructor.findIndex(val => {
        return val.name === "Matt";
	    }); // 1


== includes ==

.- return a boolean if a value is in a string easier thatn using 'indexOf' which work on string.

Lets imagine if we wanna see  if string include characeter 'x'. We can use 'for-loop' to iterate over all the values in the string and see if we get the right character or we can use the 'indexOF()' method which return the index which's character exists in a string. 'indexOf' is always returning '-1' if the value that we looking for is not inside the string So we commonly write the conditional logic.  

    ei. use case includes() method at ES2015 and indexof at ES5

    //from
        'awesome'.indexOf('some') > -1 // true

    // to
        'awesome'.include('some'); // true

    It's more consise way of using 'indexOf' or for-loop and very useful with conditional logic.
            

== Number.isfinite ==

A handy way for handling NaN being a typeof number

Number.isfinite is a static method on the number constructor

unfortunately checking to see a number is not a number can bit tricky. Since 'typeOf' not a number actually number, we can't realy use the 'typeOf' check so we have to use isNaN() function. If we wanna see something is a number or isn't none a number, we have to change even more conditional logic together and it's get little messy.

    ei. Number.isFinite 

    // ES5
        function seeIfNumber(val) {
            if(typeof val === 'number' && !isNaN(val)) {
                return "it is a number!";
            }
        }

    to:
    // ES2015
        function seeIfNumber(val) {
            if(Number.isFinite(val)) {
                return "it is a number!";
            }
        }

== RECAP ==

.- The 'map' data structure is useful when creating key value pairs and the keys are not strings.

.-'sets' are useful for creating unique data sets and do not require ley vaule pairs.

.- The ES2015 'Promise' constructor allow s for creating promises and resolving an array of promises with 'promise.all'

.- Generators ('*') are valuable when creating functions or method that can pause and resume at any time 

.- ES2015 provides a few useful method for converting array-like-objects into array, making shallow copies of objects, and handling issues with 'NaN()' and 'type()' number

	1. shallow : dangkal, cetek, tidak sungguh-sungguh,


5. Examine two new features ES2016

6. Use new String methods and refactor code using ES2017 async function

7. Introduce the 'spread' and 'rest' operator object
